Suzanne Berger is the inaugural John M. Deutch Institute Professor. Her current research focuses on politics and globalization. She recently co-chaired the MIT Production in the Innovation Economy project, and in September 2013 published Making in America: From Innovation to Market. She created the MIT International Science and Technology Initiative, and participated in the 1989 Made in America project at MIT. She wrote Made By Hong Kong and Global Taiwan (with Richard K. Lester). She is the author of Notre Premire Mondialisation and How We Compete. Her earlier work focused on political development (Peasants Against Politics) and the organization of interests (Dualism and Discontinuity in Industrial Societies and Organizing Interests in Western Europe). Suzanne Berger served as Head of the MIT Department of Political Science, founding chair of the SSRC Committee on West Europe, and Vice President of the American Political Science Association. She has been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The French government has awarded her the Palmes Academiques, Chevalier de l'Ordre National du Merite and the Lgion d'Honneur.
Adam Berinsky is the Mitsui Professor of Political Science at MIT and serves as the director of the MIT Political Experiments Research Lab (PERL). He is also a Faculty Affiliate at the Institute for Data, Systems, and Society (IDSS). Berinsky received his PhD from the University of Michigan in 2000. He is the author of "In Time of War: Understanding American Public Opinion from World War II to Iraq" (University of Chicago Press, 2009). He is also the author of "Silent Voices: Public Opinion and Political Participation in America" (Princeton University Press, 2004) and has published articles in many journals. He is currently the co-editor of the Chicago Studies in American Politics book series at the University of Chicago Press. He is also the recipient of multiple grants from the National Science Foundation and was a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences.
Don Blackmer is a Professor of Political Science Emeritus. Professor Blackmer's interests lie in comparative politics with a focus on Russia and the former Soviet Union, and on Communist and other left-wing parties in Western Europe. He is currently working on Soviet domestic politics and has previously studied the national and international strategies of the Italian Communist Party. With Max F. Millikan, he edited and contributed to The Emerging Nations: Their Growth and United States Policy. Professor Blackmer served as Department Head for a number of years and has held other administrative posts at MIT including Associate Dean of the School of Humanities and Social Science; Director of the Program in Science, Technology, and Society; and Assistant Director of the Center for International Studies. He has been Chairman of the Council for European Studies and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Andrea Louise Campbell is the Arthur and Ruth Sloan Professor of Political Science. Professor Campbell's interests include American politics, political behavior, public opinion, and political inequality, particularly their intersection with social welfare policy, health policy, and tax policy. She is the author of "Trapped in America's Safety Net: One Family's Struggle" University of Chicago Press, 2014, How Policies Make Citizens: Senior Citizen Activism and the American Welfare State (Princeton, 2003) and, with Kimberly J. Morgan, The Delegated Welfare State: Medicare, Markets, and the Governance of Social Provision (Oxford, 2011). Her research has appeared in the American Political Science Review, Political Behavior, Comparative Political Studies, Politics & Society, Studies in American Political Development, and Health Affairs, among others. She holds an AB degree from Harvard and a PhD from UC Berkeley. Her research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, and Russell Sage Foundation. She is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Social Insurance and served on the National Academy of Sciences Commission on the Fiscal Future of the United States.
Devin Caughey is an Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. Caughey earned his PhD at Berkeley under the supervision of Eric Schickler. He previously studied history at Yale and Cambridge. Devin Caughey is primarily interested in the fields of American Politics and American Political Development, with a side interest in Political Methodology. His current book project, "Representation without Parties: Reconsidering the One-Party South," examines the ideological evolution and diversity of Southern members of Congress and their relationship to public opinion in the region. Caughey's work has appeared in the journals Studies in American Political Development and Political Analysis, which in 2012 named his "Elections and the Regression Discontinuity Design" (with Jasjeet Sekhon) an Editor's Choice Article for its contribution to political methodology. The article was also awarded the 2012 Warren Miller Prize by the Society for Political Methodology.
Volha Charnysh joined MITs Department of Political Science in the fall of 2018. In 2017-2018, she was a fellow at the Niehaus Center for Globalization and Governance at the Princeton University Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. She received her PhD in Government from Harvard University in May 2017. Dr. Charnyshs research focuses on historical political economy, legacies of violence, nation- and state-building, and ethnic politics. Her book project examines the long-run effects of forced migration in the aftermath of World War II in Eastern Europe, synthesizing several decades of micro-level data collected during a year of fieldwork in Poland, funded by the Social Science Research Council and Center for European Studies. Dr. Charnyshs work has appeared in the American Political Science Review, Comparative Political Studies, and the European Journal of International Relations. Her dissertation won the 2018 Ernst B. Haas Best Dissertation prize, awarded by the European Politics and Society Section of the American Political Science Association, as well as the Best Dissertation Prize, awarded by the Migration & Citizenship Section. Dr. Charnysh has also contributed articles to Foreign Affairs, Monkey Cage at the Washington Post, National Interest, Transitions Online, Arms Control Today, Belarus Digest, and other media.
Nazli Choucri, Professor of Political Science, is a Senior Faculty at the Center of International Studies (CIS), and Faculty Affiliate at the Institute for Data, Science, and Society (IDSS). She works in the area of international relations and cyberpolitics, with special attention to sources of conflict and strategies for security and sustainability. Professor Choucri directs the research initiatives of Cyber-IR@MIT -- also known as ECIR 2.0 -- an extension of the cyber-inclusive view of international relations introduced by MIT-Harvard project on Explorations in Cyber International Relations for which she served as principal investigator. She is the architect and Director of the Global System for Sustainable Development (GSSD), an evolving knowledge networking system centered on sustainability problems and solution strategies. Professor Choucri is the founding Editor of the MIT Press Series on Global Environmental Accord, previously General Editor of the International Political Science Review, and currently on the Editorial Board of the American Political Science Review.Professor Choucri has written numerous papers, and is the author and/or editor of twelve books, most recently Cyberpolitics in International Relations (2012) and International Relations in the Cyber Age: The Co-Evolution Dilemma, with David D. Clark (2019). She is a member of the European Academy of Sciences. Her international research and advisory activities include two terms as President of the Scientific Advisory Committee of UNESCO's Management of Social Transformation Program -- as well as work in Algeria, Canada, Colombia, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Honduras, Japan, Kuwait, Mexico, Pakistan, Qatar, Sudan, Switzerland, Syria, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates and Yemen.
Fotini Christia is a Professor of Political Science. She received her PhD in Public Policy from Harvard University in 2008 and has been awarded an inaugural Andrew Carnegie fellowship anda Harvard Academy fellowship among others. Her research interests deal with issues of conflict and cooperation in the Muslim world, and she has worked out of Afghanistan, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Iraq, Yemen and the Palestinian Territories. Her book, Alliance Formation in Civil Wars, published by Cambridge University Press in 2012, was awarded the Luebbert Award for Best Book in Comparative Politics, the Lepgold Prize for Best Book in International Relations and the Distinguished Book Award of the Ethnicity, Nationalism, and Migration Section of the International Studies Association. Her research has also appeared inScience, Review of Economic Studies, Journal of Development Economics,American Political Science Review, andJournal of Comparative Politics, among other journals. Fotini Christia has written opinion pieces forForeign Affairs, The New York Times, The Washington PostandThe Boston Globe. She graduated magna cum laude with a joint BA in Economics-Operations Research and a Masters in International Affairs from Columbia University in 2001.
M. Taylor Fravel is the Arthur and Ruth Sloan Professor of Political Science and Director of the MIT Security Studies Program at MIT. Taylor is a graduate of Middlebury College and Stanford University, where he received his PhD. He has been a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, a Predoctoral Fellow at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, a Fellow with the Princeton-Harvard China and the World Program and a Visiting Scholar at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He also has graduate degrees from the London School of Economics and Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar. He currently serves on the editorial boards of the International Studies Quarterly, Security Studies, Journal of Strategic Studies, and The China Quarterly, and is a member of the board of directors for the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations. He is also the Principal Investigator of the Maritime Awareness Project.
F. Daniel Hidalgo is the Cecil and Ida Green Associate Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He received his doctorate in Political Science at the University of California at Berkeley and received a BA at Princeton University. Hidalgo is a past recipient of grants from the National Science Foundation, the Fulbright program, and the Experiments in Governance and Politics Network. His research focuses on the political economy of elections, campaigns, and representation in developing democracies, especially in Latin America, as well as quantitative methods in the social sciences. His work has appeared in journals such as the Journal of Politics, Review of Economic and Statistics, World Development, Political Analysis, and the American Journal of Political Science.
Willard Johnson is Professor of Political Science Emeritus. Professor Johnson's interests cover a broad range of African and African American studies, from the politics, policy strategies, and role of external human and capital resources in African development, to aspects of African and African American history, culture, philosophy, and inter-ethnic and foreign relations.Professor Johnson is co-author of West African Governments and Volunteer Development Organizations, and the author of The Cameroon Federation: Political Integration in a Fragmentary Society, as well as articles and book chapters on issues of African development and foreign relations, and economic and political development of American inner-city areas. His current research concerns priorities for U.S.-Africa relations as well as patterns of historic relations between Africans and Native Americans.Professor Johnson founded and continues to be active in the leadership of The Boston Pan-African Forum, which is a membership organization devoted to promoting mutually beneficial relations between the United States and the countries and peoples of Africa and the African Diaspora. He founded and is the current President of The Kansas Institute of African American and Native American Family History (KIAANAFH) which is a non-profit membership organization to commemorate pioneer African American families of the Mid-West, to document the historic ties between African- and Native-Americans, and to promote their collaboration and common interests. He is featured alongside a hundred leaders, including Nelson Mandela and President Barack Obama, judged to be important to the Boston area communities of color, in Portraits of Purpose: A Tribute to Leadership.
In Song Kim is the Class of 1956 Career Development Associate Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He completed his Ph.D. in Politics at Princeton University. His research interests include International Political Economy and Formal and Quantitative Methodology. His research focuses on the political economy of lobbying and campaign donation, estimation of political preferences, and causal inference with panel data. His dissertation won the 2015Mancur Olson Awardfor the Best Dissertation in political economy. An article version of this research received the 2018Michael Wallerstein Awardfor the best published article in political economy. In Song Kim conducts Big Data analysis of international trade. He is developing methods for dimension reduction and visualization to investigate how the structure of international trade around the globe has evolved over time. His work has appeared and forthcoming in various academic journals, including theAmerican Political Science Review, American Journal of Political Science, Annual Review of Political Science, International Organization, International Studies Quarterly,Political Analysis,andThe Journal of Politics.
Chappell Lawson is an Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. He directs the MIT International Science and Technology Initiatives (MISTI) program and the International Policy Lab. Professor Lawson's recent work has focused on Mexican politics, the effect of candidates' physical appearance on their electoral success, political leadership, and homeland security policy.From September 2009 through February 2011, Professor Lawson was on leave from MIT as a political appointee in the Obama Administration, serving as Executive Director and Senior Advisor to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Before joining the MIT faculty, he served briefly as a Director of Inter-American Affairs on the National Security Council staff during the Clinton Administration.Professor Lawson was a National Fellow at The Hoover Institution, Stanford University (2002-2003) and a Visiting Research Fellow at the Center for U.S.-Mexico Studies at the University of California, San Diego (1998-99). He received his Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1999 and his AB from Princeton (the Woodrow Wilson School) in 1989.
Evan Lieberman is the Total Professor of Political Science and Contemporary Africa. He conducts research in the field of comparative politics, with a focus on development and ethnic conflict in sub-Saharan Africa. Lieberman received his Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley.He is the author of "Boundaries of Contagion: How Ethnic Politics have Shaped Government Responses to AIDS" (Princeton University Press 2009) and "Race and Regionalism in the Politics of Taxation in Brazil and South Africa" (Cambridge University Press 2003), and has published articles in the American Political Science Review, Annual Review of Political Science, Comparative Political Studies, Politics & Society, Studies in Comparative International Development, and World Development. Evan Lieberman is recipient of the 2014 David Collier Mid-Career Award, the 2010 Giovanni Sartori Book prize, the 2004 Mattei Dogan book prize, the 2002 Gabriel A. Almond dissertation award; and the 2002 Mary Parker Follett article award. He was a Fulbright fellow in South Africa in 1997-98, and a Robert Wood Johnson health policy scholar at Yale University in 2000-02. Previously, he was Professor and Associate Chair in the Department of Politics at Princeton University (2002-14).
Erik Lin-Greenberg is an Assistant Professor of Political Science at MIT. He received his PhD from Columbia University, and his M.S. and B.S. in Political Science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Professor Lin-Greenberg's research examines how emerging military technology affects conflict dynamics and the regulation and use of force. His current book project leverages experimental methods, archival research, elite interviews, and surveys to study how remote warfighting technologies like drones and cyber warfare shape crisis escalation. In other ongoing projects, he explore how technology influences alliance relationships and public attitudes toward the use of force, and is interested in the role of food in international politics.Professor Lin-Greenberg's work has appeared in a variety of academic and policy outlets including Security Studies, Journal of Peace Research,International Peacekeeping, The Washington Post,Foreign Policy, and War on the Rocks. His research has been supported by the Eisenhower Institute, the Horowitz Foundation for Social Policy, the Smith Richardson Foundation, Tobin Project, and Columbia University. He previously worked as a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Pennsylvanias Perry World House, and as a Carnegie Pre-doctoral Fellow at Stanford Universitys Center for International Security and Cooperation.
Asya Magazinnik is an Assistant Professor of Political Science at MIT, and will begin as Assistant Professor in January, 2020. Asya is receiving her PhD from the Department of Politics at Princeton University.She studies American political institutions, electoral geography,quantitative methods, and causal inference. Her researchsits at the intersection of federalism and democratic representation, exploring the strategic interactions between national, state, and local governments and their respective constituencies as they engage in the policy process. Her recent and ongoing projects focus on the politics of local immigration policing; on the impacts of the California Voting Rights Act on minority representation in local government, and on housing and land use; and on developing methodologies to learn more about preferences from conjoint experiments.
Vipin Narang is an Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT and a member of MITs Security Studies Program. He received his Ph.D. from the Department of Government, Harvard University in May 2010, where he was awarded the Edward M. Chase Prize for the best dissertation in international relations. He holds a B.S. and M.S. in chemical engineering with distinction from Stanford University and an M. Phil with Distinction in international relations from Balliol College, Oxford University, where he studied on a Marshall Scholarship. He has been a fellow at Harvard Universitys Olin Institute for Strategic Studies, a predoctoral fellow at Harvard Universitys Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, and a Stanton junior faculty fellow at Stanford Universitys Center for International Security and Cooperation. His research interests include nuclear proliferation and strategy, South Asian security, and general security studies.His first book Nuclear Strategy in the Modern Era (Princeton University Press, 2014) on the deterrence strategies of regional nuclear powers won the 2015 ISA International Security Studies Section Best Book Award. He is currently working on his second book, Strategies of Nuclear Proliferation (Princeton University Press, under contract), which explores how states pursue nuclear weapons. His work has been published in several journals including International Security, Journal of Conflict Resolution, The Washington Quarterly,and International Organization.
Richard Nielsen is an Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. He completed his PhD (Government) and AM (Statistics) at Harvard University, and holds a BA from Brigham Young University. His book,Deadly Clerics(Cambridge University Press),uses statistical text analysis and fieldwork in Cairo mosques to understand the radicalization of jihadi clerics in the Arab world. Nielsen also writes on international law, the political economy of human rights, political violence, and political methodology. Some of this work is published or forthcoming inThe American Journal of Political Science, International Studies Quarterly, Political Analysis,andSociological Methods and Research. In 2017-2019 he is an Andrew Carnegie fellow, and his work has previouslybeen supported by the National Science Foundation, the Harvard Academy for International and Area Studies, and the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.
Melissa Nobles is the Kenan Sahin Dean of the School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences, and Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Nobles research and teaching have focused on the comparative study of racial and ethnic politics, and issues of retrospective justice. Her current research centers on constructing a database of racial killings in the American South, 19301954. Working closely as a faculty collaborator and advisory boardmember of Northeastern Law School's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice law clinic, Nobles has conducted extensive archival research, unearthing understudied and more often, unknown deaths and contributing to legal investigations. She is the author of two books, Shades of Citizenship: Race and the Census in Modern Politics (Stanford University Press, 2000), The Politics of Official Apologies (Cambridge University Press, 2008), and co-editor with Jun-Hyeok Kwak of Inherited Responsibility and Historical Reconciliation in East Asia (Routledge Press, 2013). Her scholarship has also appeared in the Annual Review of Political Science, Daedalus, American Journal of Public Health, and several edited books. Nobles is a graduate of Brown University where she majored in History. She received her MA and PhD in Political Science from Yale University. Nobles has held fellowships at Boston University's Institute for Race and Social Division and Harvard University's Radcliffe Center for Advanced Study. She has served on the editorial boards of Polity, American Political Science Review, and Perspectives on Politics journals. Nobles has also been involved in faculty governance at MIT and beyond, serving as the Associate Chair of the MIT Faculty from 20072009 and Vice-President of the American PoliticalScience Association, 2013-14.
Kenneth Oye is a Professor of Political Science (School of Humanities Arts and Social Sciences) and Data Systems and Society (School of Engineering) and Director of the Program on Emerging Technologies (PoET), with work on international relations, political economy and technology policy. His work in international relations includes Cooperation under Anarchy, Economic Discrimination and Political Exchange, and four Eagle monographs on American foreign policy, and advisory work for the Petersen Institute, UNIDO and US Treasury, Commerce and EXIM. His work in technology policy has focused on adaptive management of risks associated with synthetic biology, pharmaceuticals, the internet and nuclear energy, with papers in Nature, Science, Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Politics and the Life Sciences and Issues in Science and Technology. Professor Oye is a faculty affiliate of the MIT Synthetic Biology Center, the Center for Biomedical Innovation, and the Internet Policy Research Initiative. He chairs biosafety committees for iGEM and the Broad Institute Biofoundry and has served as an invited expert to the UN BWC, WHO, PCAST and NRC. He is a recipient of the Levitan Award for Excellence in Teaching (2011), the Graduate Council Teaching Award (1998) and the Technology and Policy Program Faculty Appreciation Award (2003). Before coming to MIT, Professor Oye taught at Harvard University, the University of California, Princeton University and Swarthmore College. He holds a BA in Economics and Political Science from Swarthmore College with Highest Honors and a Ph.D in Political Science from Harvard University with the Chase Dissertation Prize.
Roger Petersen holds BA, MA, and PhD degrees from the University of Chicago. He has taught at MIT since 2001 and is the Arthur and Ruth Sloan Professor of Political Science. Petersen focuses on within-state conflict and violence. He has written three books:Resistance and Rebellion: Lessons from Eastern Europe (Cambridge University Press, 2001), Understanding Ethnic Violence: Fear, Hatred, Resentment in Twentieth Century Eastern Europe (Cambridge University Press, 2002), and Western Intervention in the Balkans: The Strategic Use of Emotion in Conflict (Cambridge University Press, 2011). He is currently working on a manuscript entitled A Social Science Guide to the Iraq Conflict. He teaches classes on military intervention, conflict and violence, and emotions in politics.
Michael Piore has been on the faculty of the Department of Economics at MIT since 1966, and also currently holds a joint appointment with the Department of Political Science. He is also currently a Visiting Senior Fellow in International and Public Affairs at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs at Brown University. He earned his undergraduate and graduate degrees at Harvard University, where he wrote his doctoral dissertation under the direction of John T. Dunlop. He is the founding director of the MIT-Mexico Program and former associate director of the Center for Technology, Policy and Industrial Development. He has served as president of the Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics (SASE) and as an elected member of the executive committee of the American Economic Association. He was a MacArthur Prize Fellow (1984-1989), a member of the Executive Committee of the American Economic Association (1990-1995), and a member of the Governing Board of the Institute for Labour Studies of the International Labour Organization (1990-1996).
Barry R. Posen is Ford International Professor of Political Science at MIT and serves on the Executive Committee of Seminar XXI. He has written three books, Restraint-A New Foundation for U.S. Grand Strategy, Inadvertent Escalation: Conventional War and Nuclear Risks and The Sources of Military Doctrine. The latter won two awards: The American Political Science Association's Woodrow Wilson Foundation Book Award, and Ohio State University's Edward J. Furniss Jr. Book Award. He is also the author of numerous articles, including "The Case for Restraint," The American Interest, (November/December 2007) and "Command of the Commons: The Military Foundation of U.S. Hegemony," International Security, (Summer, 2003.) He has been a Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow; Rockefeller Foundation International Affairs Fellow; Guest Scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies; Woodrow Wilson Center Fellow; Smithsonian Institution; Transatlantic Fellow of the German Marshall Fund of the United States, and most recently Visiting Fellow at the John Sloan Dickey Center at Dartmouth College.
Richard Samuels is Ford International Professor of Political Science and director of the Center for International Studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has been head of the MIT Political Science Department, Vice-Chair of the Committee on Japan of the National Research Council, and chair of the Japan-US Friendship Commission. He has also been elected to the American Academy of Arts & Sciences and was awarded an Imperial decoration, the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold and Silver Star by the Emperor of Japan and the Japanese Prime Minister. His study of the political and policy consequences of the 2011 Tohoku catastrophe, 3:11: Disaster and Change in Japan, was published by Cornell University Press in 2013. Samuels' Securing Japan: Tokyo's Grand Strategy and the Future of East Asia, was a finalist for the Lionel Gelber Prize for the best book in international affairs in 2007. Machiavelli's Children won the Marraro Prize from the Society for Italian Historical Studies and the Jervis-Schroeder Prize from the International History and Politics section of American Political Science Association. Earlier books were awarded prizes from the Association for Asian Studies, the Association of American University Press, and the Ohira Memorial Foundation. His articles have appeared in Foreign Affairs, International Security, Political Science Quarterly, International Organization, Journal of Modern Italian Studies, The National Interest, Journal of Japanese Studies, and Daedalus. From 2014-2019, he was Einstein Visiting Fellow at the Free University of Berlin, and his latest book, Special Duty: A History of the Japanese Intelligence Community, was named one of the Best of Books 2019 by the Council on Foreign Relations journal, Foreign Affairs.
Harvey Sapolsky is Professor of Public Policy and Organization and recently retired from teaching political science and directing the MIT Security Studies Program. Professor Sapolsky completed his B.A. at Boston University and earned a M.P.A. and Ph.D. (Political Economy and Government) at Harvard University. He has worked in a number of public policy areas, including health, science, and defense, and specializes in analyzing the effects of institutional structures and bureaucratic routines on policy outcomes. He has been a visiting professor at the University of Michigan and the U. S. Military Academy at West Point. In the defense field he has served as a consultant or panel member for Commission on Government Procurement, the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Office of Naval Research, the Naval War College, the U. S. Army, Draper Laboratory, the RAND Corporation, John Hopkins' Applied Physics Laboratory, the National Research Council, and the Department of Energy. His current research focuses on three main areas: U. S. defense politics including especially inter-service and civil/military relations; the impact of casualties on the use of force; weapon acquisition policies, military innovation, and the structure and performance of defense industries.
Ben Ross Schneider is the Ford International Professor of Political Science and director of the MIT Brazil program. Prior to joining the department in 2008, Schneider taught at Princeton University and Northwestern University.Professor Schneider's teaching and research interests fall within the general fields of comparative politics, political economy, and Latin American politics. His books includeReinventing Leviathan: The Politics of Administrative Reform in Developing Countries (2003), Business Politics and the State in 20th Century Latin America (2004), Hierarchical Capitalism in Latin America: Business, Labor, and the Challenges of Equitable Development (Cambridge University Press, 2013), Designing Industrial Policy in Latin America: Business-Government Relations and the New Developmentalism (2015),andNew Order and Progress: Democracy and Development in Brazil(Oxford University Press, 2016). He also has published on topics such as democratization, technocracy, education politics, the developmental state, business groups, industrial policy, and comparative bureaucracy.
David A. Singer is the Department Head and Raphael Dorman-Helen Starbuck Professor of Political Science at MIT. He is also Secretary of the Faculty. Professor Singer's research and teaching focus on international political economy with an emphasis on international financial relations, migration, international institutions and governance, and monetary and currency policies. He is co-author (with Mark Copelovitch) of Banks on the Brink: Global Capital, Securities Markets, and the Political Roots of Financial Crises (Cambridge University Press, 2020) and author of Regulating Capital: Setting Standards for the International Financial System (Cornell University Press, 2007, 2010) as well as articles in American Journal of Political Science, American Political Science Review, International Organization, Journal of Politics, International Studies Quarterly, and other journals. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of the International Political Economy Society, and was previously Associate Editor of International Studies Quarterly. Singer is a graduate of the University of Michigan and Harvard University, where he received his Ph.D. in 2004. Before joining the MIT faculty, he was Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame (2004-2006), and also worked in corporate finance and technology venture development. He was a Visiting Scholar at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2008-9, a Visiting Professor at Harvard University's Weatherhead Center for International Affairs in 2010-11, and a Visiting Professor at Singapore University of Technology and Design in 2015. Since 2007 he has been Associate Head of MacGregor House, an undergraduate residence hall.Professor Singer was the inaugural chair of the MIT Committee on Sexual Misconduct Prevention and Response. He was the recipient in 2017 of the MIT Change Maker Award for "Shifting the culture that perpetuates sexual violence."
Gene Skolnikoff is Professor of Political Science Emeritus. Professor Skolnikoff has focused his research and teaching interests in the field of science and public policy, especially the interaction of science and technology with international affairs. This interest has covered a wide range of international subjects, including recent studies in global climate change and proliferation. He studied electrical engineering at MIT, followed by politics and economics at Oxford University on a Rhodes Scholarship, and political science at MIT once again. He has held a variety of posts, including serving on the White House staff in the Office of the Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology under Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy, and he played an active role as Senior Consultant to the White House Science Office under President Carter.Professor Skolnikoff served as Head of the Department from 1970-74, and was Director of the Center for International Studies from 1972 to 1987. He has been a consultant to government departments and international organizations, has held a variety of posts in professional societies, and was instrumental in the development of the science and public policy fields at universities in the U.S. and abroad. His research publications include Science, Technology and American Foreign Policy; International Imperatives of Technology; and a major book entitled: The Elusive Transformation: Science, Technology, and the Evolution of International Politics.
Charles Stewart III is the Kenan Sahin Distinguished Professor of Political Science at MIT, where he has taught since 1985, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. His research and teaching areas include congressional politics, elections, and American political development.His current research about Congress touches on the historical development of committees, origins of partisan polarization, and Senate elections. His recent books of congressional research include Electing the Senate (2014, with Wendy J. Schiller), Fighting for the Speakership (2012, with Jeffery A. Jenkins), and Analyzing Congress (2nd ed., 2011).Since 2001, Professor Stewart has been a member of the Caltech/MIT Voting Technology Project, a leading research effort that applies scientific analysis to questions about election technology, election administration, and election reform. He is currently the MIT director of the project. Professor Stewart is an established leader in the analysis of the performance of election systems and the quantitative assessment of election performance. Working with the Pew Charitable Trusts, he helped with the development of Pews Elections Performance Index. Professor Stewart also provided advice to the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. His research on measuring the performance of elections and polling place operations is funded by Pew, the Democracy Fund, and the Hewlett Foundation. He recently published The Measure of American Elections (2014, with Barry C. Burden).With the support of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Democracy Fund, and the Joyce Foundation, in 2017 Professor Stewart established the MIT Election Data and Science Lab, which applies scientific principles to how elections are studied and administered. In 2020, he partnered with Professor Nate Persily of the Stanford Law School to establish the Stanford-MIT Healthy Elections Project.Professor Stewart has been recognized at MIT for his undergraduate teaching, being named to the second class of MacVicar Fellows in 1994, awarded the Baker Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, and the recipient of the Class of 1960 Fellowship. From 1992 to 2015, he served as Head of House of McCormick Hall, along with his spouse, Kathryn M. Hess.
Kathleen Thelen is Ford Professor of Political Science at MIT.Her work focuses on the origins and evolution of political-economic institutions in the rich democracies. She is the author, among others, ofVarieties of Liberalization and the New Politics of Social Solidarity(2014) andHow Institutions Evolve(2004), and co-editor ofAdvances in Comparative Historical Analysis(with James Mahoney, 2015), andBeyond Continuity(with Wolfgang Streeck, 2005). Her awards include the Aaron Wildavsky Enduring Contribution Prize (2019); the Michael Endres Research Prize (2019), the Barrington Moore Book Prize (2015), the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award of the APSR (2005), the Mattei Dogan Award for Comparative Research (2006), and the Max Planck Research Award (2003). She was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2015 and to the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences in 2009. She was awarded honorary degrees at the Free University of Amsterdam (2013), the London School of Economics (2017), the European University Institute in Florence (2018), and the University of Copenhagen (2018).Thelen has served as President of the American Political Science Association (APSA), Chair of the Council for European Studies and as President of the Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics. Thelen is General Editor, along with Eric Wibbels, of the Cambridge University Press Series in Comparative Politics, and a permanent external member of the Max Planck Institut fr Gesellschaftsforschung in Cologne, Germany.
Lily L. Tsai is Ford Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Tsai is also the founder and Faculty Director of the MIT Governance Lab (MIT GOV/LAB), a group of political scientists working collaboratively with practitioners on research and innovation in citizen engagement and government accountability.Her research focuses on issues of accountability, governance, and political participation in developing country contexts, with particular emphasis on Asia and East Africa. Her book, Accountability Without Democracy: Solidary Groups and Public Goods Provision in Rural China, was published in Cambridge University's Studies on Comparative Politics and received the 2007-08 Dogan Award from the Society of Comparative Research for the best book published in the field of comparative research. Tsai has also published articles in the American Political Science Review, Comparative Politics, Comparative Political Studies, and World Development. Tsai received a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University in 2005, and is a graduate of Stanford University and the University of California, Berkeley.
Stephen Van Evera is Ford International Professor in the MIT Political Science Department. Prof. Van Evera works in several areas of international relations: the causes and prevention of war, U.S. foreign policy, U.S. security policy, U.S. intervention in the Third World, international relations of the Middle East, and international relations theory. He has published books on the causes of war and on social science methodology, and articles on American foreign policy, American defense policy, nationalism and the causes of war, the origins of World War I, and U.S. strategy in the War on Terror. He currently serves as chair of the Tobin Project committee on national security.
Ariel White is the Silverman: (1968) Family Career Development Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. She studies voting and voting rights, race, the criminal legal system, and bureaucratic behavior. Her work uses large datasets (and sometimes experiments) to measure individual-level experiences, and to shed light on people's everyday interactions with government. She received her PhD in Government from Harvard University, where she was a doctoral fellow in the Multidisciplinary Program in Inequality and Social Policy (at Harvard's Kennedy School) and a Radcliffe fellow. Her research has appeared in the American Political Science Review, Science, Political Behavior, and other journals.
Teppei Yamamoto is the Alfred Henry and Jean Morrison Hayes Career Development Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT. He obtained a BA in Liberal Arts from the University of Tokyo (2006) and an MA (2008) and PhD (2011) in Politics from Princeton University, where he received a Charlotte Elizabeth Procter Fellowship for the year of 2010 to 2011. His doctoral dissertation won the John T. Williams Dissertation Prize in 2010 from the Society for Political Methodology. He is broadly interested in developing quantitative methods for political science research, with particular focus on causal inference and experimental design. His research has appeared in various journals such as American Journal of Political Science and American Political Science Review.
Bernardo Zacka is a political theorist with an interest in ethnographic methods. His research focuses on the normative challenges that arise in the course of public policy implementation. He is interested in understanding how the organizational environment in which public officials are situated affects their capacity to operate as sound and balanced moral agents. Zacka is also interested, more broadly, in normative political theory, architecture and urbanism, and 20th century European political thought.Zacka's first book, When the State Meets the Street: Public Service and Moral Agency, was published by Harvard University Press in 2017. It explores the everyday moral lives of the frontline public workers, or "street-level bureaucrats", who act as intermediaries between citizens and the state. It won the 2018 Charles Taylor book award from the Interpretive Methodologies and Methods group of the American Political Science Association, and it builds on Zacka's doctoral dissertation, which won the 2015 Robert Noxon Toppan prize for the best dissertation on a subject of political science at Harvard University.Prior to joining MIT, Zacka was a junior research fellow at Christ's College, Cambridge and a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Ethics in Society at Stanford.He holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from MIT (2005), and received his Ph.D. from the Department of Government at Harvard University in 2015.
